# mba-app

The mba-app is an online portal that helps prospective students manage their MBA application process.

# Technical specs

The portal consists of two components:
- A web-service written in Java using the Spring boot framework
- A web front end written using the Angular framework

# Building the components

## Web service

### Path
The web service is located under: mba-app/mba-app-web-service. 

### Requirements
 - Java 8 installed on your development machine and include JAVA_HOME in your PATH before building the project.
 - Maven 3 installed and the mvn executable set in your PATH

### Building the project

You can build the project from under mba-app/mba-app-web-service.

`mvn clean install`

### Running the app

You can run the project from IntelliJ by running the Application.java class. You can also run it with Maven using the following command 

`mvn spring-boot:run`


## Web front end

### Path
The root of the UI project is mba-app/angular/dist/

### Requirements
You need to have the angular framework installed on your machine

### Running the development server
You can run the development server with `ng serve`.

### Building the project
You can run `ng build` from under mba-app/angular/dist/ to build your project.

If you are windows user, the operating system may be incompatible with the code. In this case, run `npm config set python "your path to python/python.exe"` `npm install --global --production windows-build-tools` `npm rebuild node-sass --force` in admin powershell. Then try `ng build` again.

### Building the app
You can use 'ng serve' to run the application from under mba-app/angular/dist/demo/default to start up the application.

#Deploying the front end and the backend as a single application
In order to deploy the front end as static files along with the Java web app you would need to copy the files generated by building the front end to a 'static' directory in the web app.

`cd mba-app/angular/dist/`
`ng build`
`cp -r mba-app/angular/dist/dist/* mba-app/mba-app-web-service/src/main/resources/static/`





